By combining four datasets of Bitcoin Wallet Classification, as described here: https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/gregorywilder/bitcoin-wallet-classification-public-dataset
I was able to classify 43,621,232 Bitcoin wallet addresses. I placed these classifications into a SQLite database that contained one classification for each of the 43.62 million wallet addresses. Among those, 114,904 wallet addresses were classified as gambling addresses and 17,789,381 wallet addresses were classified as exchange addresses, which are the primary classifications related to my first two research questions.

Using CoinCodex’s price data https://coincodex.com/ I also created a SQLite database which held the closing price of Bitcoin in U.S. Dollars for each day, (starting July 17, 2010), and, for each block, referenced the closing price for the date of the block, 1 day prior, 7 days prior and 30 days prior.

While the price of Bitcoin can fluctuate significantly in a single day, I use only the closing price for my study, as pricing data for each individual block is not readily available. This might slightly affect the results of the study, but should remain effective overall at showing long-term trends over days, months, and years. Furthermore, it is important to note that long-term variations in price are much more significant than intraday variations.

Using these two databases, I iteratively went through each of the 3.3 Billion transactions on the Bitcoin blockchain between block 0 and 500,000 (for a total of 500,001 blocks), and attempted to classify each transaction. I did this by first looking up each recipient’s wallet address and checking the classification database to see if it could be classified. If no classification existed for the recipient’s wallet address, I looked up the sender’s wallet address for a possible classification.  I gave priority to classifications of the recipient’s wallet address because this is likely the intended transaction type (i.e. if the sender is a person’s wallet and the recipient is a gambling wallet, the intended transaction would be a gambling transaction).

Tracking sender addresses allowed me to analyze the purchases of Bitcoin from exchanges, winnings from gambling transactions, and returned Tumbler bitcoin. However, because my study examines the effect of the price of Bitcoin on gambling and exchange behavior, the returned winnings, while traceable and classifiable as a gambling transaction, are not helpful to understanding gambling behavior as it relates to the price of Bitcoin. Thus, when analyzing gambling transactions, I only considered transactions where the recipient was classified as Gambling.

For each block, I counted the number of each classification and aggregated the total volume of Bitcoin for each classification. I also multiplied the total volume of Bitcoin from each classification by the closing price of Bitcoin in order to determine the U.S. Dollar value of each classification for each block. 

After completing these calculations on each block, I inserted one line into a .csv file per block. I then combined and aggregated all blocks for each calendar day in order to have daily totals, because pricing data was daily. I also completed these same steps a second time to only consider recipient addresses and saved a separate .csv file for these transactions to be able to consider sending and receiving transactions separately. Finally, I subtracted each field (other than date and closing price data) in the recipient only .csv file from the combined classification .csv file to make a separate .csv file which contained the sender only information. From this combined data, I then calculated, for each classification, the total number of transactions, the average transaction size in Bitcoin, and the average transaction size in U.S. Dollars by summing up each category for all days and dividing by the total number of transactions in that classification.

The daily .csv files are being included here for public use and review. There are two files: one that includes at the daily summaries for all transactions (Both Senders and Recipients), and one file that includes only transactions when the recipient was identified (i.e. a person sends Bitcoin to a Gambling wallet).

